Add max depth and recursion doc (#239)
authzed/docs: pages/spicedb/modeling/recursion-and-max-depth.mdx

# Recursion and Max Depth

> Permissions questions in SpiceDB are answered by walking the **tree** consisting of the graph formed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Permissions questions in SpiceDB are answered by traversing the **tree** constructed from the graph formed
```

by combining the [schema] (structure) and [relationships] (data).

> A `CheckPermission` request will, for example, start walking from the resource+permission requested,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `CheckPermission` request will, for example, traverse starting from the resource+permission requested,
```

along any referenced permissions and relations, until the subject is found or maximum depth is
reached.

[schema]: /spicedb/concepts/schema
[relationships]: /spicedb/concepts/relationships

## Max Depth

> In order to prevent requests from walking without bounds, SpiceDB comes with a default max depth of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to prevent requests from traversing without bounds, SpiceDB comes with a defaults to a depth of
```

> `50`, after which an error is returned to the caller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`50`, after which computation is halted and an error is returned to the caller.
```

> This depth is configurable via the `--dispatch-max-depth` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This max depth is configurable via the `--dispatch-max-depth` flag.
```

## Recursion in Relationships

> Expecting the permissions graph to be a **tree**, SpiceDB _does not_ support recursive data dependencies that result in operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result of expecting the permissions graph to be a **tree**, SpiceDB _does not_ support recursive data dependencies that result in operations
```

(such as `CheckPermission`) visiting the _same_ object more than once.

### Example

The following is an example of an **unsupported** nesting of groups:

```zed
definition user {}

definition group {
	relation member: user | group#member
}

definition resource {
	relation viewer: user | group#member
	permission view = viewer
}
```

and relationships:

```
resource:someresource#viewer@group:firstgroup#member
group:firstgroup#member@group:secondgroup#member
group:secondgroup#member@group:thirdgroup#member
group:thirdgroup#member@group:firstgroup#member
```

Attempts by SpiceDB to compute a permission answer will walk from `resource:someresource#viewer`
-> `group:firstgroup#member` -> `group:secondgroup#member` -> `group:thirdgroup#member` ->
`group:firstgroup#member` -> ..., causing a cycle.

## Common Questions

> ### Why doesn't SpiceDB simply support tracking the objects its walked?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why doesn't SpiceDB simply support tracking the objects it has walked?
```

> Logically: Nested recursive "sets" have semantics issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Nested recursive "sets" have unclear semantics.
```

> Practically: Overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Undesirable overhead.
```

#### Nested sets have semantics issues

[Zanzibar] and ReBAC in general operate on _sets_: when a permission check is made, SpiceDB is
answering whether the requested subject is a member of the _set_ formed of all subjects that are
visited by walking the permissions tree.

[Zanzibar]: https://zanzibar.tech

The question becomes: if a group's members contains the members of _itself_, is that legal within
a set?
Much academic literature has been written about this topic (which we won't repeat here),

> but the very question raises whether allowing such an approach is semantically valid to many.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but the very question raises whether allowing such an approach is semantically valid.
```

As a real example, imagine the following schema and relationships:

```zed
definition user {}

definition group {
  relation direct_member: user | group#member
  relation banned: user | group#member
  permission member = direct_member - banned
}
```

```
group:firstgroup#direct_member@group:secondgroup#member
group:firstgroup#banned@group:bannedgroup#member
group:secondgroup#direct_member@user:tom
group:bannedgroup#direct_member@group:firstgroup#member
```

As we see above,`user:tom` is a `direct_member` of `secondgroup`, which makes him a member
of `firstgroup` -> which implies he's a member of `bannedgroup` -> which implies he's _not_
a member of `firstgroup` -> thus making him no longer `banned` -> (logical inconsistency)

Thus, to prevent the above issue from occurring, Zanzibar and other ReBAC implementations such
as SpiceDB assume the permissions graph is a [tree].

[tree]: https://zanzibar.tech/2SMVg4W_Wx:N:k

#### Overhead

> From a practically perspective, tracking of visiting objects when computing `CheckPermission` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a practical perspective, tracking of visiting objects when computing `CheckPermission` and
```

other permissions queries results in having significant amount of overhead over the wire and in
memory to track the full set of encountered objects and check for duplicates.

### What do I do about a max depth error on CheckPermission?

If you've received an error like:

```
the check request has exceeded the allowable maximum depth of 50: this usually indicates a recursive or too deep data dependency. Try running zed with --explain to see the dependency
```

Run `zed --explain` with the parameters of the check to show whether the issue is due to recursion or because the tree is simply too deep:

```sh
zed permission check resource:someresource view user:someuser --explain
```

```ansi
1:36PM INF debugging requested on check
! resource:someresource viewer (4.084125ms)
└── ! group:firstgroup member (3.445417ms)
    └── ! group:secondgroup member (3.338708ms)
        └── ! group:thirdgroup member (3.260125ms)
            └── ! group:firstgroup member (cycle) (3.194125ms)
```

> ### My check worked with a recursion?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why did my check work with recursion?
```
